We're able to update the post, I will no longer console log that on the server
but what I want to do is we are returning the message that we were successful right
and on the frontend in the post service where we send that http request, there, we got all the data
we need to update the post on the frontend too.
Now as I said, this is kind of redundant here because the only place where we use the posts is the messages,
well the root page and there we always fetch a new copy anyways but I still want to show you how you
can locally update the post
once you've got that success response here. Now we could do this by taking the post we got there anyways
and then simply replacing the current version of that post in our posts array with that version. For that
I'll first of all clone our post array and store it in an updated posts constant,
there I'll store this posts,
then I'll search for that old post version by its ID,
so I'll search for the index, old post index will be updated posts find index, find index takes a function
that will return or should return true if we found the posts we're looking for,
so here I'm checking whether the posts or the ID of the post I'm looking at in that array,
if that is equal to the post ID, so of the ID of the post we updated. If it's equal then I found
the index of the post I want to replace,
so then I can say updated posts for that old post index,
replace that with my new post
here, so with this post,
once all of that is done I can say this posts equals updated posts and now we get an immutable way of
updating the old posts.
Now I just need to tell my app about it by sending this,
well this event through the subject again and here I send a copy of my updated posts with it.
So now we're doing this locally, even though again it's not that important in our current setup but I
still want to do it like that,
now as a next step, I also want to make sure that if we are on the edit page and we reload, we don't have
that blank form again because we failed to fetch the post and we do fail because if we reload, all our
state is lost, the app restarts and therefore our posts array in the service will be empty because we only
fetch posts from the server with get posts which is only called in the post list component
but if we reload on this page, we will not have visited this component yet. So therefore we also need to
get that single post data from the server on this page and
we can do this by well adding a new method,
we actually have a method already, get post and we can recycle that to not get the posts from our local
array of posts but instead, to get it from the server.
So let's go back to our app.js file or our server side code and let's actually add a new route
there, app and then it's, it will be a get request so let's use the get method and it'll be a get request to API
posts for a given ID,
so again a dynamic parameter to fetch a post with that ID, then we have the method we already know and
love
and in here I want to reach out to my database and find a post with that ID and it's actually super
easy to find that, we can use the post model for that
and there we have a find by id method and as the name suggests, we simply pass an ID as an argument here
and mongoose will have a look at our database and find an element with that ID in there.
So we just pass request params ID here to refer to that encoded ID from our url and then we add the then block
where we will get an argument, our post which we fetched and in here, we first of all should check if
post exists,
if it does not exist then I want to return a response with a status code of 404 and a json document
where we might have a message like post not found because we failed to find a post for that ID
but otherwise I will return a response with a 200 code where we actually also return json
data and that json data could simply be our post or another object with a property post where you then
store this.
So now we're returning the post here from the database,
we just need to call that from our client now and we do that here.
Now we will have one problem though, right now
get post returns a post,
well it will not be able to do that anymore because if we make a http call here, that'll be an asynchronous
code and you can't return inside of a subscription,
you need to return synchronously,
so that means you can't return in a place which will run sometime in the future.
So what I'll do here instead is
I will still return something but I will return the observable we're getting from the angular http
client so that we can subscribe in the component where we are interested in that data.
So here,
I will then return this http get and send a get request to that same url we used here for
updating the post with that ID which we're getting as an argument here too,
so send that get request there and return the result of this get request which is our observable.
Now we won't subscribe here,
instead we'll now subscribe in the post create component. There
we won't assign this post like this but instead here, we can now set up a subscription which we also don't
need to unsubscribe from because it's added by the angular http client therefore angular takes care
about it
and here we know that eventually we'll get our post data
and therefore here we can set this post equal to
and now that's important to a new javascript object where we set the ID equal to post data_id
because remember this is data coming from the database and there it's stored in an _id
thing and then also the title equal to post data title and the content equal to post data content.
And now I get all these red squiggly lines because I forgot one thing in the post service, we can be
explicit about the type of data we get back, here get is a generic method and we can let typescript know
that we get back an object which will have an ID property that is a string or which will have a title
which is a string or that will have a content which is a string like this.
Now this will work in post create too,
now we initialize the posts like this.
Let's give this a try,
let's save that, back on the page if I reload,
it seems to work but we also get an error that we can't read property title of undefined. The reason for
this is
eventually we will have the post data but not right from the start
because this http request takes some time to be executed.
However post initially is undefined and we try to read a value from it here with ngModel
right from the start, this can be fixed by using the so-called elvis operator. In the template,
add a questionmark after post and this will force angular to check whether post exists before it
tries to read the title and it will populate this field with nothing
if the post does not exist and the same down there for the content. With this if you save that, the page
will reload and we don't see an error
and now if I add a lot of exclamation marks here and I hit save and I go back, we see this is our post here.
So now this is working,
one important note though, our updating mechanism here in update post in the posts service where we
replace the old post with that ID,
well that will actually not work, it will just do nothing here because of course if we never visited
our post list page, well then we won't have any posts in that array so there is nothing to update.
So it will not fail but
we load the updated list anyways when we visit that page,
it's just something for you to keep in mind.
So with that, we're now able to edit posts too.